One of the really cool things is that
Storybook is framework agnostic.
It will work with React, obviously.
It is written in React, and that's
probably just like jQuery before it,
usually the first and primary target.
We use Svelte at Temporal and so
we use Storybook with Svelte.
It has support for Vue, Web Components,
Angular, I think even Ember, right?
So for whatever you use,
Storybook will apply for it.
Like I said, I chose React
cuz it was the lingua franca.
But again, we're not really doing all
that much specifics along the way.
And so
what's really cool is at any given point,
you can run this npc
storybook@latest init in your repo.
And what Storybook will do is it will go
in and basically it has some heuristics
also known as looking at your package.json
to figure out what framework using.
And it will install the kind
of different pieces that,
whether it's at Storybook/Svelte,
at Storybook/React,
at Storybook/Lit, what have you,
Web Components, all of that will work.
And so you don't necessarily need to think
about do much configuration differently.
It will put a default
thing in there as well.
But one of the other things that we can do
as well is there's this idea of Storybook
sandboxes which basically very
quickly creates a Storybook.
Which is a lot of times if I'm trying out
something new or something along those
lines and I wanna pull it into a repo,
that will work as well.
And that will give you a little bit
of sense of a brand new storybook.
So let's just go take a look at that for
a second.
And we'll kinda just see
what we start out with and
get a sense of default stuff that I
might otherwise, blow away very quickly.
So I can run this npx @latest.
Now, if you need a particular version,
choose the particular version.
In our case, we are going to do @latest.
At the time of this recording,
8.08 is the latest version.
Storybook 8 came out last month.
So we will discuss some things that
are kinda brand new to Storybook and
have the latest and
greatest versions in here as well.
So we'll go ahead and
run this @storybooklatest, and
one of the great things and
the reason I kinda bring this up early is
we are gonna just start with
a very simple React app.
But if one wanted to see what it might
look like across all of the different
supported frameworks, you can also
go ahead and pick something and
just see the general structure.
And one of the things I
encourage you to do kind of in
between various parts is look
at a few different versions and
notice that it doesn't really matter,
right?
The idea of a server,
there's slightly different flavours,
right, based on the unique
characteristics.
But genuinely speaking, one could
stare at the Storybooks story and
forget which framework
they are looking at.
We'll be using transcript today as well.
The logic there being, if one is
gonna try to build a reusable and
consistent design system, having some of
the type safety and hints to make sure
people are using it the way that it
should be used is probably useful.
And also if one does not use Typescript,
untypescripting stuff is just
don't put the types in, right?
It's easier to look at Typescript and
reverse engineer JavaScript,
then go the other way,
cuz there are some unique characteristics,
some ceremony that we have
to do to support TypeScript.
I wanna make sure that if you
use TypeScript, that is a thing.
I'll go ahead and
just use the Svelte one real quick just to
show you that it's all basically the same.
It will go ahead and install the sandbox.
And this will give us a nice tour of some
of the stuff we are gonna implement along
the way as well.
So Storybook has a few
component pieces to it.
It's got the idea of a story, right,
which is just basically a version of your
component with some amount of arguments,
parameters, props,
settings, what have you.
Also supports MDX,
which is Markdown plus React.
The reason I mention this is even if you
use Svelte, or Ember, or Angular, or
what have you,
MDX, there's still a little bit of React
that kinds creeps in no matter what.
You don't necessarily need to React.
As a Storybook 8,
it's not even a dependency gets
added to your package.json.
It's actually through the build process
just kinda baked into Storybook.
But we can go ahead and, You
can see that I've got
the versions here as well.
And then we'll go ahead and do it.
They use yarn, I use pnpm, you can use
npm, whatever makes you happiest, cool.
He says, As yarn doesn't work for
me, but it's fine.
You can use npm install as well,
it doesn't matter.
So by default, it will go ahead and
create you some NPM scripts,
run NPM, run Storybook, or PNPM Storybook,
whatever makes you happiest,
and it will go ahead and
start up in port 6006.
And you can create a bunch of
things in a Storybook file.
This is an MDX file, which is, again,
Markdown plus React, which lets you embed
components or have some amount of logic
and Javascript in your Markdown files.
You can embed like, okay,
I wanna talk about this component and
how it should be used, right?
These are all really important
parts of the design system.
Nobody wants to watch me write
documentation live, trust me.
But we'll kinda discuss how to do that and
some of the best practices around that,
as well as we have this idea of various
different permutations of a button.
This is kind of the default setup.
And so you can see, you can actually
include documentation about how
to actually use this component, right?
What are the props that it takes?
And tweak all of these things live,
which is both great for
the documentation and
proliferation of your design system.
Also, I'm not gonna lie to you, I'm gonna
start taking all the component pieces,
start with a story and
develop that various,
all the different permutations
on one monitor in my editor
on the other monitor is an incredibly
productivr workflow as well.
We will kind of pay some homage to more of
the kind of philosophy of design systems
as we talk about the stuff as well, right?
You can start with buttons, you can put
entire pages into Storybook, right?
And we'll show at the end how to do stuff.
Yeah, but this thing, it automatically
does a fetch call to something, cool.
We can actually load that data.
No, but this needed the context API or
what have you,
or some surrounding ceremony, right,
whether it's Svelte context or
React context,
it doesn't really matter, right?
We'll show you how to do that.
I have some written pieces to
even include mock server, so
you can actually have like real deal
data as you're developing, right?
In ours,
it's kind of our open source project.
We have basically stored
simulated API calls.
We can actually see with real data how
all of these components compare with our
website.
We use Contentful as our CMS, right?
So our Storybook is hooked up to
Contentful so we can actually see, okay,
just the blog card component with
the latest blog post before we
actually hit Publish and
see all of these things.
So for us, we use it not only for
our design system pieces, but
as a integral part of our
deployment process, right?
Every time we open up a PR,
it not only builds a version of
the website that we can go visit, but
it also builds a version of the Storybook.
So I can send just those pieces
to designers on my team and
see just those unique pieces and
get feedback on just these things.
And we can actually like, okay, maybe in
the application today on a new design
system component, it's a button that
has a very short string, right?
But we can write stories that have
a button with a very long string, right?
We can actually have all these pieces and
play see it all, right,
which stops a lot of the churn
in our code base as well.
So in a story,
we've got either the documentation page or
these kinds of individual
stories here as well.
You've got the various controls you can
like, is this a primary button or not?
You can change the label.
So if you wanted to see what does this
look, it gets really long, right?
You can do that as well and
kinda manipulate and
play around with all these things,
changing the background color of the
button, in this case, changing the size.
And we'll look at how to set up these
controls, how to customize them, and
all of those things as well.
The other thing you'll notice is that you
can actually keep track of the actions and
look at all those things you
can actually put in stuff.
If you've used something like jest for
kinda having spies and
subs, you can actually run those as well.
Be like, did the at click function
actually get called with the things that I
expected them to get called?
You can actually check and
validate those things,
right, outside the context of your app and
also run automated tests around that and
all of these permutations to make sure
you didn't break some subtle use case.
That wasn't maybe the page you
were staring at at the time.
And kinda make sure that you don't
accidentally cause regressions
throughout your code base.
You can also have different presets and
these are kind of different
stories plural file.
You can have different individual stories
that have these components set up
different ways so
that you don't have to go through and
necessarily tweak everything every
time you wanna see something.
Here are all the common use cases,
I can take a look at them.
So the other things we'll talk about
today are visual aggression testing,
which is saying like, hey,
I'm changing some stuff.
Usually, there's some things
you expect to change, right?
But for me, I joked the other
day when we were teaching
workshop that the code base that
was a great Greenfield brand
new project three years ago is
now three years old, right?
Which means there are all sorts of little
edge cases and stuff along those lines,
and there's a lot of need and
opportunity to refactor.
There's parts of the code base where
this was a good idea when we did it and
then the product changed directions and
there's archaeological layers.
And so we were implementing dark
mode of last six weeks, right?
And there's a lot of pieces that we're
refactoring a lot, the ability to
have a visual regression test to make
sure did the things that I change.
The things I don't wanna change,
they shouldn't change, right, and
it's impossible to check all
those things one by one.
And so with our Storybook integration,
we can actually roll that all together,
make sure that nothing's changing that
we don't expect to change as well.
Okay, so this is kind of what
a beginning Storybook looks like.
You can see we've got the nav bar,
we've got buttons,
you can create even full
pages in here as well.
This is like with the logged in and
logged out experience,
which is really great kind of to work
with design on these things as well.